# Aspiranet
This project was conducted as a part of UC Berkeley's Data Science Discovery Program. As a part of the program I was tasked to work alongside a team of other Berkeley Data Science students to help Aspiranet, a social services organization in the state of California analyze their service data and report on any disparities identified as a part of a new standard set by the Joint Commission. As a part of this project, I created an interactive dashboard (`aspiranet_county_level_dashboard.html`) to visualize the data we were provided and an accompanying Python script (`dashboard.py`) to allow them to generate a similar dashboard using new data in the future. A more in-depth discussion of design and reproducability requirements are included below. For any questions, please reach out to chong02@berkeley.edu

## `aspiranet_county_level_dashboard.html`
This dashboard was created via a geopandas explore object saved as an html using both client data and incident data from Aspiranet. More specifically, a snapshot of all of Aspiranet's clients at the start of the project (approximately September 2022) and a snapshot of all incident reports over the past three years from the start of the project were used to create this dashboard. More specifics to recreate this dashboard using further data are included in the `dashboard.py` section (see below).

## `dashboard.py`
This is a Python script that can be used to reproduce the dashboard shown for use with data in the future. This script uses the following libraries which require installation: Pandas, NumPy, GeoPandas, Folium, Plotly, and SciPy. The installation of GeoPandas and Folium can be a little tricky as they both require some additional dependencies for geospatial plotting, but once installed the script should run smoothly. Additionally, the datafiles must be in a `Data` subdirectory with the names `Demographics.csv` (for the client snapshot data) and `Incidents.csv` (for the incident reports data). The specific format of the data (i.e. specific column names) is shown in the toy datasets `Demographics Toy.csv` and `Incidents Toy.csv`. The five entries shown in each are mere examples and do not represent actual Aspiranet clinets nor actual incident reports. Important to note is the choice of adding a `Plots` subdirectory for the county Plotly plots generated by the script to be stored. To ensure the interactive plots correctly appear in the dashboard, create a `Plots` subdirectory with html files corresponding to the Plotly plots for each county.
This script has been written in the hopes that it will be able to be used in the future with little to no changes to the actual code itself. If there are any issues, please feel free to reach out to me via email!